README.md, before:

# Robot Data Autouploader

This system is designed to automatically upload data, from a local source (e.g., USB drive or specified directories) to a remote storage solution, such as an S3-compatible object store. It includes a daemon process for background monitoring and uploading, and a Terminal User Interface (TUI) for observing and managing the upload jobs.

## Running the System

### Prerequisites

- Go (Developed on 1.24.1)
- Access to the configured S3 storage (if not using local/test setup)

### Running the Daemon

The daemon is responsible for monitoring source directories or USB drives for new data and managing the upload queue.

```bash
go run cmd/daemon/main.go --config <path_to_config_file>
# Example: go run cmd/daemon/main.go --config configs/config.yaml
# For testing with MinIO: go run cmd/daemon/main.go --config testing/config-minio.yaml
```

### Running the TUI Client

The TUI client provides a user interface to view the status of ongoing and completed jobs.
It must point to the same database as the daemon.

```bash
go run cmd/client/main.go --db <path_to_db_file>
```

#### Screenshots 
<img width="1509" alt="Screenshot 2025-05-26 at 19 04 52" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/63056938-aedf-4d5f-915f-67a3c379b80c" />

<img width="1505" alt="Screenshot 2025-05-26 at 19 05 05" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d65ee0bc-d01f-4a59-b006-965d2b8772db" />

<img width="631" alt="Screenshot 2025-05-26 at 19 05 14" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/32c78075-c8a6-4d20-8278-2f94b2c68c57" />


## Building

### On MacOS

`docker run --rm --platform=linux/amd64 -v "$(pwd):/app" -w /app golang:1.24 sh -c "apt-get update && apt-get install -y libsqlite3-dev && CGO_ENABLED=1 GOOS=linux GOARCH=amd64 go build -o robot-data-daemon ./cmd/daemon/main.go"`

Make sure to build on linux/amd64, and by using a OS with glibc (e.g., Ubuntu) to avoid issues with CGO.

## Configuration

The system is configured via a YAML file (e.g., `configs/config.yaml` or `testing/config-minio.yaml`). Below is a comprehensive list of all available configuration options:

### Daemon Settings (`daemon`)

| Field | Type | Default | Description |
|-------|------|---------|-------------|
| `database_path` | string | `~/.autoloader/jobs.db` | Path to the SQLite database file for storing job information |
| `disable_directory_scan` | bool | `false` | Disable automatic directory scanning for new data |

### Storage Settings (`storage`)

#### S3 Configuration (`storage.s3`)

| Field | Type | Default | Description |
|-------|------|---------|-------------|
| `bucket` | string | - | S3 bucket name for uploads |
| `endpoint` | string | - | S3 endpoint URL (for custom S3-compatible services like MinIO) |
| `region` | string | `us-west-1` | AWS region |
| `access_key` | string | - | S3 access key ID |
| `secret_key` | string | - | S3 secret access key |
| `upload_path` | string | - | Prefix path for uploaded objects in S3 |

#### Local Storage Configuration (`storage.local`)

| Field | Type | Default | Description |
|-------|------|---------|-------------|
| `staging_dir` | string | `~/.autoloader/staging` | Local directory for staging files before upload |
| `retention_policy_on_upload` | string | - | Action after successful upload (`delete` to remove staged files) |
| `retention_policy_on_copy` | string | - | Action after successful copy (`delete` to remove source files) |

### USB Settings (`usb`)

| Field | Type | Default | Description |
|-------|------|---------|-------------|
| `target_mount_point` | string | `/storage` | Mount point to monitor for USB devices |
| `target_directory` | string | - | Specific directory within USB devices to monitor |
| `ignored_patterns` | []string | `["SYSTEM*", ".*"]` | File/directory patterns to ignore during USB scanning |
| `scan_interval_ms` | int | `500` | Interval in milliseconds between USB scans |

### Job Settings (`jobs`)

| Field | Type | Default | Description |
|-------|------|---------|-------------|
| `direct_upload` | bool | `false` | Skip staging and upload directly from source |
| `max_retries` | int | `3` | Maximum number of retry attempts for failed jobs |

### Copy Settings (`copy`)

| Field | Type | Default | Description |
|-------|------|---------|-------------|
| `exclude_patterns` | []string | `["*.tmp", "*.DS_Store"]` | File patterns to exclude during copy operations |
| `min_free_space_ratio` | float64 | `0.05` | Minimum free space ratio to maintain (0.05 = 5%) |

### Upload Settings (`upload`)

| Field | Type | Default | Description |
|-------|------|---------|-------------|
| `parallelism` | int | `1` | Number of concurrent upload threads |
| `chunk_size_mb` | int | `8` | Chunk size in MB for multipart uploads |
| `throttle_mbps` | int | `50` | Upload speed limit in Mbps (0 = no limit) |
| `allowed_patterns` | []string | `["data.bag", "meta.json"]` | File patterns allowed for upload (empty = allow all) |

### Example Configuration

See `testing/config-minio.yaml` for a complete example configuration file that can be used with MinIO for testing purposes.

Commit message:

Update README.md to clarify daemon and client execution commands and prerequisites

README.md, after:

# Robot Data Autouploader

This system is designed to automatically upload data, from a local source (e.g., USB drive or specified directories) to a remote storage solution, such as an S3-compatible object store. It includes a daemon process for background monitoring and uploading, and a Terminal User Interface (TUI) for observing and managing the upload jobs.

## Running the System

The daemon and client can be downloaded from the [releases page](https://github.com/airoa-org/robot_data_autouploader/releases). 

### Prerequisites

- Linux x86_64 system

### Running the Daemon

The daemon is responsible for monitoring source directories or USB drives for new data, staging it, and uploading it to the configured storage solution. 

```bash
./robot-data-daemon-linux-x86_64 --config <path_to_config_file>
# Example: go run cmd/daemon/main.go --config configs/config.yaml
# For testing with MinIO: go run cmd/daemon/main.go --config testing/config-minio.yaml
```

### Running the TUI Client

The TUI client provides a user interface to view the status of ongoing and completed jobs.
It must point to the same database as the daemon.

When a upload job has failed, it can be retried from the TUI client.

```bash
./robot-data-client-linux-x86_64 --db <path_to_db_file>
```

#### Screenshots 
<img width="1509" alt="Screenshot 2025-05-26 at 19 04 52" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/63056938-aedf-4d5f-915f-67a3c379b80c" />

<img width="1505" alt="Screenshot 2025-05-26 at 19 05 05" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d65ee0bc-d01f-4a59-b006-965d2b8772db" />

<img width="631" alt="Screenshot 2025-05-26 at 19 05 14" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/32c78075-c8a6-4d20-8278-2f94b2c68c57" />

## Development

### Prerequisites
- Go 1.24 or later
- SQLite3 (for the database)

### Building

#### On MacOS

`docker run --rm --platform=linux/amd64 -v "$(pwd):/app" -w /app golang:1.24 sh -c "apt-get update && apt-get install -y libsqlite3-dev && CGO_ENABLED=1 GOOS=linux GOARCH=amd64 go build -o robot-data-daemon ./cmd/daemon/main.go"`

Make sure to build on linux/amd64, and by using a OS with glibc (e.g., Ubuntu) to avoid issues with CGO.

## Configuration

The system is configured via a YAML file (e.g., `testing/config-minio.yaml`). Below is a comprehensive list of all available configuration options:

### Daemon Settings (`daemon`)

| Field | Type | Default | Description |
|-------|------|---------|-------------|
| `database_path` | string | `~/.autoloader/jobs.db` | Path to the SQLite database file for storing job information |
| `disable_directory_scan` | bool | `false` | Disable automatic directory scanning for new data |

### Storage Settings (`storage`)

#### S3 Configuration (`storage.s3`)

| Field | Type | Default | Description |
|-------|------|---------|-------------|
| `bucket` | string | - | S3 bucket name for uploads |
| `endpoint` | string | - | S3 endpoint URL (for custom S3-compatible services like MinIO) |
| `region` | string | `us-west-1` | AWS region |
| `access_key` | string | - | S3 access key ID |
| `secret_key` | string | - | S3 secret access key |
| `upload_path` | string | - | Prefix path for uploaded objects in S3 |

#### Local Storage Configuration (`storage.local`)

| Field | Type | Default | Description |
|-------|------|---------|-------------|
| `staging_dir` | string | `~/.autoloader/staging` | Local directory for staging files before upload |
| `retention_policy_on_upload` | string | - | Action after successful upload (`delete` to remove staged files) |
| `retention_policy_on_copy` | string | - | Action after successful copy (`delete` to remove source files) |

### USB Settings (`usb`)

| Field | Type | Default | Description |
|-------|------|---------|-------------|
| `target_mount_point` | string | `/storage` | Mount point to monitor for USB devices |
| `target_directory` | string | - | Specific directory within USB devices to monitor |
| `ignored_patterns` | []string | `["SYSTEM*", ".*"]` | File/directory patterns to ignore during USB scanning |
| `scan_interval_ms` | int | `500` | Interval in milliseconds between USB scans |

### Job Settings (`jobs`)

| Field | Type | Default | Description |
|-------|------|---------|-------------|
| `direct_upload` | bool | `false` | Skip staging and upload directly from source |
| `max_retries` | int | `3` | Maximum number of retry attempts for failed jobs |

### Copy Settings (`copy`)

| Field | Type | Default | Description |
|-------|------|---------|-------------|
| `exclude_patterns` | []string | `["*.tmp", "*.DS_Store"]` | File patterns to exclude during copy operations |
| `min_free_space_ratio` | float64 | `0.05` | Minimum free space ratio to maintain (0.05 = 5%) |

### Upload Settings (`upload`)

| Field | Type | Default | Description |
|-------|------|---------|-------------|
| `parallelism` | int | `1` | Number of concurrent upload threads |
| `chunk_size_mb` | int | `8` | Chunk size in MB for multipart uploads |
| `throttle_mbps` | int | `50` | Upload speed limit in Mbps (0 = no limit) |
| `allowed_patterns` | []string | `["data.bag", "meta.json"]` | File patterns allowed for upload (empty = allow all) |

### Example Configuration

See `testing/config-minio.yaml` for a complete example configuration file that can be used with MinIO for testing purposes.
